it's great to see everyone here and to
be back in this place after two years a
huge thank you first of all to de'vide
who's been working tirelessly to
organize this and where everything grew
from yeah again he was gonna hang out
with Federer
that was like what two weeks ago or
three weeks ago and then
suddenly everybody's flying around the
world to to get over here and to our
events team who really pulled a ton of
this together so thanks to to all of
them
one more thing because the Vitas heavily
most of the logistics for the entire
time help him out so there will be a
bunch of times when he will want to do
something and just don't let them ask
him what he needs and then do it so it's
pretty great to see so many people from
many different working groups it really
takes a village to create open source so
it's really amazing to see so many faces
old and new and let me ask me to talk
about why this stuff matters I wonder if
we can get the lights down is that
possible so everyone can take a nap and
it's okay yeah will do maybe that's me
just talk about why decentralizing the
web and why working on Internet
infrastructure is important and you know
we're going as a species through a very
weird time things 50 years ago when
we're very different from today in terms
of how humans operated they didn't have
these like crazy super computers in our
pockets
they couldn't like look up everything
they couldn't talk to their loved ones
you know at a moment's notice they
couldn't call each other they couldn't
coordinate at that degree and so on and
things are gonna be way different 50
years from now in our lifetimes which is
crazy to think about it's really hard to
predict what's gonna happen in the
future and so this what we got out of
like a you know crazy technology
explosion that we're writing and less
crazy rocket
with the internet with the admin of the
Internet and the admin of computing we
got this incredible like applications
platform that we can just write a bit of
code ship it through the internet and
then grant people superpowers it's
pretty crazy the ability of you to sit
down and think about something and say
wouldn't it be cool if people could do X
and then just start writing it and then
ship it and now suddenly you've like
patched the OS that like people deal
with and suddenly now people can do X
it's pretty amazing
and you know these are kind of sort of
pretty old graphs I guess is ghost of
2015 but you know the Internet users are
growing a lot this is like mobile phone
users I think it's mobile phone for the
description it's not actually users
there's a lot that's more than than
people on the Internet
yeah so mobile subscriptions to ad
number the world's population so that
means you know many people have multiple
but still a crazy crazy projected growth
this also don't graph but you know it's
not the same all over the world there's
a lot of places where this isn't the
case and we're in this weird time where
we are so powerful that we've now that
we've acquired these crazy superpowers
and this amazing application platform
and a lot of people in the world are not
and this is gonna this is a crazy
divergence that either we work on fixing
now or it's gonna be really bad for a
lot of people and so we have this
amazing nervous system that we've built
over the last you know 50 years or
whatever but it could fragment so this
is even though it feels so permanent
and so like such a big part of our lives
and and how could the internet ever
possibly go away it could actually
fragment in a very serious way and we're
already seeing the beginnings of
nationalization of the internet where
different nations have different kinds
of main platforms that they go to where
all of there's the social networks live
and so on and so this amazing
communications worldwide sharing thing
is now getting split now
this could get worse so in any kind of
intense global conflict if something
like that happened very quickly a lot of
countries would cut lines because the
the possibilities for all kinds of cyber
warfare are huge and so you wouldn't
want to you know countries wouldn't want
to allow all sorts of traffic from other
potential combatants and so right away
like we would split this amazing
communications network and so think of
all the people around the world that you
have those relationships with and you
communicate daily with or you know in a
weekly basis or whatever and suddenly
not being able to talk to them anymore
like just kind of overnight kind of
thing so that's the kind of thing that's
that's at stake so luckily though code
is data and what this means is that we
can again grant superpowers by just
writing software and in some cases you
can use software to bootstrap hardware
so this is what's for me the most
interesting thing of the Bitcoin
explosion is that a bunch of software
within with incentive structures which
are kind of like human software the
Bitcoin network Butcher a bootstrap this
amazing massive network of computers
just doing this crazy hashing thing
right so that's kind of useless work but
maybe you could do something better with
that maybe you can get connectivity to
to spark all over the world
so at PLO we think a lot about this
pipeline of going from ideas through
specs through code getting to computers
and then becoming like getting
superpowers and a lot of what we do you
know a number of things have gotten all
the way over here and people are using
it but not really end-users yet our
stuff is not that polished and so we
have a ton of stuff in the ideas inspect
or ideas on code parts and if we want to
have a real difference into in all this
world we have to land a lot of stuff we
have to get it shipped it through the
through a lot of the pipeline so I think
you know think about about during during
the week but again with a code is date
idea this gets really cheap so imagine
if you had to build the entire telephone
network like you know Bell and a bunch
of other telecoms have to do or imagine
you've had to build the internet from
scratch that's really expensive
alternative hardware now we can just
primarily focus on on software and have
huge impact in the world so think about
platforms so I think that we got really
lucky with the web where it emerged out
of science groups who and so it was
military funded but science groups that
wanted that had a lot of good
aspirations for the world and the
structure for the Internet
got laid out before commercial interest
came in so we we lucked out here because
it kind of locked in to be you to be
open that's not happening in mobile so
Mobile is it's a pretty lockdown
platform and you can't easily ship a lot
of stuff
IOT is even more close than that
although I guess technically well with
all the vulnerabilities this might be
more open
you know like ship anything but but
what's gonna happen with things like
machine learning and you know AI and so
on and VR these probably are gonna be
super close platforms so this this great
idea of the internet being open and that
everyone can participate in it and
everyone can write whatever they want
and ship it to people is getting clamped
down and shut shut out and this is a
real fight like we have to work on
protocols and principles and movements
that try and keep it open so another
thing that's happening is that we are as
part of the Internet we're kind of
creating we have created digital cells a
lot of ourselves is now expressed
through computers in some way and so our
profile is there and our social networks
are there and our main means of
communication is there and so that has a
whole bunch of implications both from
like you know I'm not gonna believe
we're all the social networking stuff
that you already know well but there is
a real problem here with all of this
data being gathered by parties who want
to exploit it that's a an issue and
we've seen we've just seen the tip of
the iceberg of this kind of stuff with
the Cambridge analytic as things and so
on that could potentially get much worse
so there's a whole problem of how do we
allow people to have these
things securely in a way that they
govern how how that information gets
shared and distributed so
self-governance the big deal
also permanence so a lot of this stuff
people's expressions and people's you
know think of all the amazing things on
YouTube you know being wiped out
potentially in the future when you know
YouTube changes its business model and
doesn't what a one I'm gonna monetize
that stuff anymore so if we don't
archive all this stuff in a way that's
you know high fidelity then we're always
just gonna have like this weird
distorted copy with software we should
be able to just archive things things
forever I did rely identity is gonna be
a big deal when going to that too much
but I think we're getting to a point
where we're using these devices to
identify ourselves in a whole bunch of
situations and again that's completely
owned by other parties so if they want
to lock you out in some way they can so
we need a very strong push towards self
sovereign identity there's really good
projects out there it's just you know
they need a need effort that wouldn't be
nice if like you controlled the data of
your applications instead of the other
way around that'd be nice
so we really live in in this kind of
world where these groups have the data
and then sometimes one of them like
disappears and you get a notice telling
you hey you got like 30 days to copy all
your data and you get this link dump of
text files and now you have to keep what
do you do with that how is that useful
right so imagine imagine if these
applications worked a lot like your text
editor which was written 30 years ago or
more and just always works and you know
always works there's patches and so on
and people working on it but you can
grab a copy of the text editor keep it
in your computer and it works and like
you can still use it so why you know if
something as complicated as a text
editor like VI or an operating system
like you max why can't you have that be
why can you have like something as
simple as you know like SMS messaging or
like you know internet messaging be
archived in the same way and on the same
level of control so we are kind of
victims victims of the web 2.0 world
where
it was hyper centralization in like the
addressing caused all of these groups to
make it really like there was a big
difference between how easy it was to
set up your own your own web server and
host your own data versus just relying
upon third parties to do it and so we
got this like really fast aggregation of
everything nowadays we know how to do
the other stuff easier much easier and
so we may be able to turn back some of
that time so yeah let's go towards this
kind of thing there's also the problem
with that a bunch of information gets
destroyed or lost by when somebody like
just changes a point link somewhere it
sort of in terms of things like break
whoops but in some cases there's real
censorship in the internet on there's
real to to destroy information so in the
past we've had these kinds of things
happening my not favorite the anti
favorite the the burning of the of the
library this connect stuff can happen
again
so today the majority of our science and
and all our science data and all our
social networks and all of our messages
and so on
sort digitally in pretty unsafe media
that you know if it isn't powered
consistently and moved to new media it
just will automatically degrade and it
won't be readable anymore so this is
kind of like the future of all the
digital data unless we find reliable
ways of archiving and safeguarding it so
paper is surprisingly more durable than
hard disks so let's come up with ways of
dealing with that and at the same time
maybe not archive everything maybe we
shouldn't be archiving everything social
social data is kind of toxic in that
it's important to people and their and
their networks but it can be misused so
horribly that there's real risk of
keeping this stuff around and archiving
it for a long time in ways that other
bad parties could use so think of how
bad groups in the 40s used like census
records from 10 years prior to hunt down
people like imagine what they could do
with the treasure trove of information
that Facebook has like all of your
thoughts all of like the machine
learning based analysis and like
psychological profiles of people like
you know bad a bad government of a
country could like sort by like likely
to oppose our positions and then just
you know get the top 1% of those people
and ship them out of the country or
worse so that's like possible with the
information right so this is why this
kind of stuff matters in a in a broken
Internet we're looking at fragmented
Internet then these kinds of abilities
of being able to have communication and
collaboration platforms that work
offline becomes a really big deal if
most of your applications break when you
can't talk to the backbone imagine if
like something happens to the internet
suddenly nothing works and so we have
this amazingly good period of time now
where we could be working on making this
kind of stuff work really well like just
being able to have things like Google
Docs and messages and so on all of the
think of like a top 10 applications you
use daily and make sure that those are
offline capable that that you can use
them and you can control the data and
you can control the code so that know if
the service provider disappears or you
just can't talk to the service writer
anymore you can still use this stuff you
can still use these applications yeah
just you know whenever you work with
your computer and so on just think about
what fraction of your daily life is
mediated by the Internet in some way
like directly or in the background like
if you go have food somewhere probably
all of the logistics and supply chain
management stuff that got the food to
your table a lot of it is probably
running on internet things so let's
bring it back so that's a lot of
problems like the video ask me for like
you know why is this important well
that's why so let's remember that we are
in Lisbon and that we can have a lot of
fun and that it is you know throughout
history it's been groups of people who
really care about others and who see
kind of the potential problems and see a
potential better future that actually
make that happen so and it doesn't take
that many people surprisingly things
like the internet things like computers
things like the personal computer were
built by very small groups of people in
many cases the you know at least the
software part of personal computers was
designer Park by like less than 100
researchers which is crazy to think
about all of the stuff that like seeded
Apple or Microsoft and so on build by
less than a hundred people so yeah let's
let's decentralize the web Matt came
just in the nick of time and the and you
know there's a bunch of stuff that you
know about let's try and work on these
problems and let's you know I wanted to
take stock for a moment on all the
different things that we are doing
there's really a lot we we probably
generate more projects per day than we
have been with to think about let alone
work on and so there's nothing like go
up if s JSI PFS liquid up here that has
like 20 sub small projects
peer pad I press companion which is
awesome by the way like being able to
just like more and more inches like in
the background does its thing and it's
in this great
IP Fez desktop is that the current name
and things like multi formats
I feel Li like the research group the
CRT T's event that we're gonna have
tomorrow there's really a ton of stuff
going on and so I think I want to urge
everybody this week to just kind of take
all of that stuff and put it away and
just focus on one thing that you care
about I just find one or two things that
you think oh this is broken this should
be fixed or I want to be great if we
could make X and like just focus on that
one thing working it and polish it and
get it to ship so I think we are really
good at starting things and working on
things but not as good at like polishing
and shipping really reliable stuff and
that's a transition that we need to go
through as a whole whole group and so
you know this these are I sorted those
by most commented on I almost did it
here but you know things like this and
so
think of the Portuguese galleons setting
off to circumnavigate the world a long
time ago from here actually like
probably or from Porto I don't know from
here right yeah so if they were full of
holes they wouldn't have gone so let's
let's think of that these days and and
really get to really reliable polished
stuff and so that that I want to again
place the emphasis on that and the focus
on that this week we have a little time
you know two three days but that's
plenty of time to to work on one
component and ship it you know something
something like a Bluetooth transport for
Lippi tp-link that might be cool and you
know so there's like a new era of
exploration and let's make sure that
when the new people in Mars get there
actually have Internet applications they
can rely on as well as we can here cool
and I think wait is this man this is a
gif no I know gif that's one more I'll
just show it to you yeah whatever I'll
turn it out later it's a gif of a plane
being built and yeah that's that's a
that's it they're more yes
[Applause]